Well, when I entered the Army, as I just mentioned,
I think we probably had the initial edge, A&M
officers did, over the West Point officers,
military academy graduates, initially, in terms
of branch knowledge. And I think that's the only
advantage we had, basically, over them, because
their education while it was branched in
material, was still oriented
very much toward the military profession,
military history,
customs of the service. And of course, they were
immaculate in formations.
And they excelled us in every way, I would say, in
military precision formation.
Now, I think that when A&M went to the branch
immaterial
form of instruction, or body of instruction, then
that advantage was lost. I wouldn't think
I could detect in the Vietnam era, for example, we
were still getting the We were getting the
branching material officer then, but I don't
think that advantage that we had in World War II
time over the West Pointer existed anymore. And
that was only really in a matter of branch
knowledge. And knowledge, of course, is a very
important element of leadership. And so it gave
the A&M officer a very good start. It ends up the
infantry or signal or whatever.
It was then up to him to keep the lead if he could. I
don't think that in wartime, World War II
experience or Vietnam experience, I never
really, or during my entire career, I was never
conscious of the West Point versus other source
officer controversy that you'd often seen
discussed. Now, in wartime, there's no question
the Vietnam War was different, but in World War II,
we needed every man that could bear arms. We
needed, with that tremendously rapid expansion
of our armed forces, we needed everyone who could
possibly command successfully at all levels. And
all of a sudden, this little army of 200,000, less
than 200,000, became 14 million. And we should
never under-evaluate
the importance of those professional officers in
creating that huge army soundly and effectively.
Although those units were filled with people like
me who came in from reserve status, National Guard
status, or commissioned in the course of the war
status.
I never felt that I was at a disadvantage in
competing for jobs or promotions in the Army with
West Pointers. If you can use that term,
competing, I guess we're subconsciously or
unconsciously competing. Everybody's
competing. Yeah. directly conscious of it.
So I think that much of that West Point
controversy, which I used to hear a lot of in my
younger, you know, my earlier years before World
War II pretty much erased it. I think that's a
result more of a earlier times. Must have been. I'm
not familiar with those earlier details, but it's
not significant now. But I think it's a fair
question to ask how we compare it, because A&M is
producing officers to go into the Army and the
other services, and it's fair to know how they
stack up. And certainly the professional
military academies is a good point of comparison.
But you never felt that you were at a disadvantage
in promotion throughout your entire career
because you had not attended West Point? Never
did.
You know, there are two things about
military service that particularly people
who've been involved extensively in wars in the
Army at least, tend to settle on. One is an outlook
that fate is going to determine whether you live or
die. Most soldiers arrive at that after they've
been in war sometime. It may not be right, but they
do. What do you think? And the other one is being at
the right place at the right time makes an awful lot
of difference in how you progress. And that's
true. Of course, the fact is that if you're in the
right place at the right time, you still have to
produce to progress. You say, how do I feel about
faith? What are your opinions on those two issues?
I agree with both of those. I became a believer in
faith. I think it's as much, not that I was always in
such frequent, or any soldier for that matter, so
frequent and constant jeopardy, but I tell you, I
was not an infantryman. I have all the respect in
the world for the infantry, and I was brought up in
the Army, convinced, oriented to the fact that the
battle is going to be won finally by the infantry.
Everybody else from the direct support field
artillery where I was most of the time in World War
II,
all the way back to the guy shipping bullets, is
working for the infantry in support of the
infantry. But those are the guys that, while
battle is never constant, when they are in battle,
I can understand how they do become fatalists
because it's one way to throw off the concern about
it. You're bound to be concerned about it, being
under fire so frequently and so intensively as
most of them are in an active battle. Well, what
about that idea of being at the right place at the
right time? Is that more important for a promotion
in the military or is it more important that you do
the job right? In other words, do you determine
your promotions, or just that fate, that ideal
fate? No, fate has something to do with that, too, I
guess, the roll of the dice. But it's not that
simple.
You will be in the right place at the right time
because somebody initially thought that's where
you ought to be. Whether it's a fellow reading your
records or whether it's the general up here who
knows you and has served with you before, and he
knows you, and he doesn't know the other
candidates, so he wants you.
But however you got there, the fact that you have
been in the right place at the right time to meet a
test and did it, there's no question that It has an
influence on how you succeed, not only rank-wise,
but in building your base of knowledge and
experience and expertise.
I know I had a few classmates that I can recall, A&M
classmates, that came out of World War II as
captains.
I came out as a lieutenant colonel, and that wasn't
unusual. And
some of those captains I knew pretty well from A&M
days. And they were victims of circumstance. You
know, being in the wrong place at the wrong time or
not getting to the right place at the right time
because they can't do it better than that. You see
some examples of that. I always felt that where
World War II and Vietnam experience, too, was
concerned, that I was in a position to be a
profiteer of circumstance. I couldn't have been
in a better situation in wartime to have the
opportunity to contribute and test yourself, be
tested, and gain from success the satisfaction of
knowing you're contributing something. You're
doing something right. Good. Effective. So we're
oversimplified by those two things, fate and
being in the right place at the right time. But
there's something to it. I think this believing in
fate simply is a matter of covering the concerns.
Of possible death. Of possible death. And you get
to where you think in terms of your friends that
way, your comrades.
Any commander worth his salt is concerned about
not overexposing his troops and not putting them
in an unacceptable
danger. But he comes to think pretty much in terms
of faith for them, too, I think. I've seen...
As I said earlier, religion has been important to
me, but I've seen deeply religious people that can
put that more in terms of the Lord taking care of
them more directly. What is faith? That's part of
it. Let's turn to your academic career. Tell me
about it. When you went down there, did you have
firm ideas? Did you want to go into business, or did
you have any idea? Did you know what you wanted to do
academically? Yes, I wanted to be a banker for some
reason. I'm not sure what. I wanted to get into
banking.
So looking at A&M at that time, we didn't have a
business major like we do now. The nearest thing to
it was agricultural administration with a major
in marketing and finance. And so that was my major.
I could never get the country out of me entirely. My
minor was animal husbandry. In fact, I think my
father always really expected me to come back
here.
When you didn't, do you think that he was let down?
Beg your pardon? When you did not return and stayed
in the military, do you think he was let down? I
don't think so. I think he might have been
disappointed. And I think the reason he thought I
would come back was because Of all the boys, I
seemed to be the one that, I guess, showed perhaps
more attachment to the land. Maybe that was just a
matter of demonstration rather than feeling.
And George, who it turned out was the one who did
come back and stay, eventually come back,
Dad thought would not want to be here, I think. He
never told me that. But George, when he graduated
from A&M, got into the production credit
organization and did very well and had good jobs.
And eventually was sent back to Kauffman, took
that office. And then when Dad died suddenly, he
came to, of course, take over the place, which was a
natural thing to do. Incidentally, I mentioned my
dad dying by accidental death.
He had a 55 gallon oil drum rigged up to put air
pressure on it and spray his cattle. I just
happened to be home en route to the ROTC camp when I
was on the staff at A&M. and went to town with him and
he took that tank in and his pickup to get it aired up
while I got a haircut and the boys at the station
were busy and he aired that thing up himself and his
uh obviously the lid had been weakened or
something anyway the lid just blew off and that
intake pipe struck him in the head and killed his uh
So, he lived a matter of a couple of hours, but never
knew anything after that. So, I just thought I'd
explain that. That must have had a big impact on
you. How old were you? Twenty? No, I was back from
World War II then, and I was forty-eight. I was not
yet married, but I was, let's see, I would have been
twenty-nine.
Well, you know, you can usually see a silver lining
to every cloud. The
one we saw was that Dad would have been the world's
worst invalid. And so you can immediately
appreciate that he was not just crippled. And then
if you accept that, you can appreciate that he
didn't live into
old age that incapacitated him. Why do you say he'd
be the world's worst cripple? Because he was such
an energetic, physical man. Active man. Active
man. At the age of 69, he never would admit that he'd
lost any of his powers, you know, physical powers,
or mental. Now, at A&M, what classes, what type of
coursework did you like?
Well, having chosen that course, majoring in
marketing and finance,
this, of course, starts basically with economics
and then gets into, as the term describes. So I
guess I enjoyed all of those courses. We had to have
so much history and so much English. And English
never bothered me. That was a great problem with a
lot of my counterparts or comrades from small
schools. We were fortunate. Had to have so much
math. Math was never my long suit. But I liked the
economics and the finance. I kind of enjoyed
accounting. That was almost a minor by virtue of
the course, you know. Were there professors there
that- But I particularly also, I never minded
these required courses off-subject because they
were all, I liked history, for example.
I wish I'd been a better student of it because it
later became important to me. Sure. Were there
professors there that were important to you or
that you had a closer relationship with?
Not really, and I'll tell you why. We all had our
favorite professors, and we all had those that we
liked. Very few, I can't think of one that I really
disliked.
But there was a distance between students and
professors then. As a matter of fact, you could
still detect in the classrooms that the
professors still felt some responsibility for
that matter discipline, which related to the
military aspects of that university. I'm sure
that was a carryover from the early years.
Probably when they were very small, every
professor had a role in the military training. I
don't know that to be a fact, but I often suspected
that. And I never had any special problems. I did
become quite close to... You know, I'm
embarrassed I can't call his name. He was an animal
husbandry professor, and he winds up getting me in
trouble because he talked me into taking advanced
statistics course. Buenas tardes. Come on. Si,
okay. Yo no se donde esta.
We're talking about an academic career at A&M. Do
you think that the career that you had, the
academic career that you had, prepared you for
banking? Yeah, sure do. I was really looking
forward until it became obvious that we were going
to the Army. I was looking forward to getting to
that bank and learning all about it. Okay, now you
told me that you had a job lined up. Yes, sir. Will
you relate that? I had a dean, Kyle, who was dean of
the School of Agriculture, my dean, really did
this. I applied properly and all that, but I think
his influence got me a job with the Federal Land
Bank in Houston. And he took me down there to meet
the top people, and the president told me that his
plan was to move me from department to department.
And as I absorbed that, I'd make the full circle,
and then they'd decide what to do with me. But I
thought that was a wonderful opportunity. But of
course, it was becoming more and more obvious, and
we were ordered to active duty upon graduation,
knew it was going to happen before we ever
graduated. All these jobs, everybody, generally
speaking, had a job lined up early in the second
semester.
So, anyway, I thought my course was very
appropriate for what I was setting out to do. By May
of 1941, then, you had prepared yourself to go into
the military. You bet. I've got to tell you a little
story that I think is very American and also is...
somewhat descriptive of the way we were thinking
in that last semester of my senior year. And every
outfit, you know, these little military outfits
that we live in, we all, members of our class,
become very close and extremely close by the time
you reach your senior year, because it's been a
lost process. Two
fine fellows in C battery in my class were adapted
Americans. Ty Kovach, Japanese, full-blooded
Japanese. He was born in this country. His parents
were not. And Peter Kousoulis, Pedro Kousoulis,
from Laredo, whose father was a Greek immigrant
who married a Spanish lady, Mexican lady, at the
border. And Pete, boy, they're wonderful guys.
Pete talked with a Greek-Mexican accent, if you
can imagine that.
At this time, of course, in our last semester, we
were devoting most of our bullet session time to
the possibilities of getting into this war, World
War II, and to the events of the day that outrageous
related to the war. This particular night we were
in my room and mine and Anderson's room and
reviewing the news of the day and the
German-American boon led by Fritz Kuhn, you were
too young to attach to that I guess, but he had just
displayed very arrogant and we thought misguided
energies up in New York I believe it was to organize
a Nazi... support organization in the United
States, and of course this just incensed us. And
I'll never forget, Peter Kasulis was ordinarily a
very quiet fella, but when he got stirred up, he did
get stirred up, and he listened and finally joined
into this conversation about the
German-American boon with one very brief but
strong statement. He beat the desk and he says, the
trouble with this country, there's too many
foreign pimples in it. Which I think is a splendid
testimony of the immigrant American. He's just as
American as anybody. Of course, he was born in this
country. But that very near attachment to foreign
land meant nothing to him. He was just as involved
as we were. Sure. How about your Japanese friend?
Oh, he was the same. He was the same, and a fine man.
His father was a His father was a truck farmer down
near Houston, and Ty succeeded him in that and is
still there. Ty lost his wife recently. I called
him when I learned about it. An interesting thing,
I went to war against the Japanese. There was a
great deal of sentiment, as you know, about the
Japanese problem in this country. And Ty and I were
very good friends, but he just would never
initiate a communication to me. And the only
reason I could, when I was over there, and the only
reason I could, I never asked him, was he didn't
want to prejudice me in any way by putting that Ty
Kovacs on his letter. You know, everything going
in and coming out.
That just may be a... What happened to him during
the war? The reason to reinforce that thought, the
week after the war was over, I got a letter from him.
He, in the late stages of the war, was drafted. Not
early. He didn't have a commission. Did he
graduate? He graduated. Why didn't he have a
commission? He was not selected for the advanced
course. You see, in those days, Everyone was in the
cadet corps except graduate students and
crippled. And even though there were only a
certain number of contracts that were made with
the juniors to pursue advanced military science
after their first two years. And there were quite a
number that weren't selected. Incidentally, we
got paid a little bit for that too, you know. But if
you weren't, you still stayed in your military
outfit. You still had your Class privileges. You
still had your seniority within the
organization. And so after the first two years, he
was not selected. That's right. But he was drafted
during the Second World War? Yes. He was not given a
commission? No. He was drafted. I forget now just
what the timing was, but it was late in the war. I
think in the early part of the war, I don't know that
the Japanese presidents had anything to do with
it. I rather think that he was necessary to
agriculture, you know, Anybody producing like
they produced were significant in the picture. I
mean, this is food for Houston industrial
workers. Did he go to the European theater?
I don't—I think he was sent to the Pacific after the
war actually was over. You know, after the
surrender. Sure. Okay. As I recall. It's been so
long I just don't piece it all together. Now, a lot
of people say that A&M is more than an institution
of higher learning, but it's something special.
What are your thoughts on that? Well, I agree with
that, at least that I know it.
First of all,
we got that sense of oneness And the A&M spirit that
stuck with us, and I think that's a plus. But also, I
think that Cadet Corps always thought so. Whether
you went in the military or not initially put you
ahead of your contemporaries. Whether you're
going into an engineering job, now my class didn't
get to do that.
I think the best example, of course, I can think of
are those just ahead of me, the two or three classes
ahead of me. You always remember the classmen
ahead of you better than the ones behind you
because you were looking up to them. And the reason
it did was because that experience they got in that
cadet corps put them ahead relatively in the same
fashion I've described to you that put us ahead of
the West Point graduate, except in the sense that
It was the leadership aspect more, in that case,
than the knowledge aspect. You were just bound, if
you came out of A&M as having been a cadet officer,
and having commanded a company or higher unit, you
just had to have accumulated some leadership and
management experiences in there. I don't think
they're separate terms. I think leadership's
enough. That the guy in the ordinary, education
institution didn't get. That's why I say yes.
What way do you think going to Ann now changed your
life?
I'm not sure that I can say it changed my life. I
think it opened up my future to a much... more
advantageous future than I could have ever had
otherwise. So it gave you new advantages. You bet.
New opportunities. You bet. But as far as changing
my life, it didn't change any of my basics. It
didn't change... I don't think it changed any of my
standards.
But it gave me new opportunities.
Okay. Let's move on to your military career, then.
Tell me how you received your commission, and
let's start right in on your first duty station.
Before the first semester of my senior year, I was
invited to apply for a regular Army commission.
You know, ordinarily we're commissioned as
lieutenants of the reserve. I got the actual forms
when I was at home Christmas holidays to apply for a
regular Army commission. And I studied that,
thought about it, and I went to my dad and I said,
Dad, I don't want a military career. I don't know
why I should. I've never given any consideration
to a military career. I said, I've enjoyed being in
this cadet corps, but that's not my goal. I said, I
think I'll just send this back to them, to the Army.
This came out of Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio.
And, of course, fathers are supposed to give good
advice to their youngsters. And he said, well, I
tell you, maybe that's the way that you shouldn't
choose to accept that. But you don't know what a
military career would be like, and you don't know
what a banking career would be like. But you could
go down and talk to Colonel Beasley,
and he could probably enlighten you on this. Why
don't you do that? So I called Colonel Beasley, and
during my holidays and his, I went down and told him
what the situation was, and I said, now, I'd just
like you to tell me what I should consider before I
act on this. Colonel Beasley was a very beloved
instructor of field artillery. He was our senior
field artillery instructor. And you asked if I'd
been very close. I guess I was as close to him in
regard as any of them, and also, through those
years, a professional as far as the Corps versus
military staff was concerned. He gave me a
wonderful
critique of a military career I thought he didn't
try to talk me into accepting that and he didn't
agree with me that I should let it go
but he says I
may be wrong but he says I believe that we're going
to get in this war and if we do you're going to find
out what the military is like And if you do, if you
had this regular commission and you like what you
found, then you're set. But if we do go to this war
and when it's over, you don't have regular
commission but would like to have had it, you'll
regret having sent this back. So I decided to take
it, and I got it. I decided to apply, and I was given
it. So I was commissioned a second lieutenant in
the reserves for just a matter of weeks until the
West Point class graduated, and I was
commissioned in the regular army, second
lieutenant field artillery, with standing just
behind the class of West Point. In other words, I
was Even though he graduated earlier, they did
that on purpose? Oh, yes. That'd be fair. Those
guys had given four years of complete time to
preparing for commissioning. So we were
commissioned behind them. Now, there were five
others in A&M who got regular commissions. Only
five others? Yeah. All the rest got reserved?
There were a total of six, two of whom were
commissioned in the Marines and four in the Army.
Mm-hmm. Of those commissioned in the Marines,
both made it a career. Of those commissioned in the
Army, three of us made it a career. My first
assignment was to the 1st Cavalry Division at Fort
Bliss, Texas. Did any, just parenthetically, did
any of those others who received regular
commissions ever make it to general? No, no. They
were fine officers, but No. So your first
assignment was? I was assigned to the— And this is
in June of 1941? In June of 1941.
I was assigned to the artillery of the 1st Cavalry
Division. That division was still a horse cavalry
division in 1941.
As
I recall, we had around 8,000 horses.
The artillery was horse two. The battalion in the
artillery that I joined initially was mounted. It
was a motorized artillery unit, but it left
shortly thereafter, and I was reassigned. to the
61st Field Artillery Battalion, which was a horse
unit. And four and a half years later, I was given
command of that division in the Philippines, of
that battalion, 61st Field Artillery Battalion.
So I stayed with it the whole war. You're talking
about being in the right place at the right time.
When vacancies occurred, I was there. and I
consider myself most fortunate to have been there
and to have succeeded to the command of the
battalion. But anyway, we thought we were going to
fight the war on the Mexican border because who's
going to send the horse outfit to fight these days?
But in the summer of 43, two years later, pretty
late, actually in the winter of 43. We had our
horses taken away, and we were made just really, in
the cavalry division form of organization, we
were really made a light infantry division. We
never lost our name, but that's what we were. Were
you sorry to see the horses go? Well, under the
circumstances, emotionally we were. But as a
matter of reason, we were glad that they were gone
because nobody wanted to tell his grandchild that
he was on the Mexican borders securing El Paso all
through World War II on a horse.
But I don't believe that I've ever witnessed a more
emotional day in the Army, even considering some
of the traumatic memorials to casualties. as was
shown, that's an extreme statement to make, but
it's because when those horses were taken away,
because there were this mass of old soldiers, the
non-cons particularly, hundreds and hundreds of
them, who'd been nothing but horse soldiers, and a
horse becomes just like your friend, you know. It
just becomes like a family member. And when they
led those horses away, you never saw such emotion
in your life. Very interesting, I thought. These
old servants are crying? You bet. Oh,
it was unbelievable. But anyway, an era had ended,
too. Sure. And we all were conscious of that. But at
the same time, we were glad that we were getting
shaped up. Actually, we'd been lined up to go to the
Pacific when this occurred. For those two years,
then, what was your job at Fort Bliss? And what was
it, training, basically, or can you explain?
Well, that's the job of every division. If it's not
in combat, it's training. And we had the best
trained division, I think, that ever went
overseas because, I say that because of the nature
of that division. Our personnel were kept intact
more. They trained more constantly. We had less,
we provided less cadremen to other new outfits
than any division in the Army. Mm-hmm. And so we
were just extremely well-trained and very
realistic. We had a commander, division
commander, General I.P. Swift. He was a West Point
graduate. He was a splendid training commander.
He was a good leader. And we couldn't have been in
better conditions when we went overseas. But
anyway,
I was initially what's called an assistant
battery executive officer. I did just about
everything those first few months that a battery
officer would do, except I'd take command. And
then I was given command of a battery.
I'd have to check my doggone record there, but a
matter of months after I entered. 1942? Yes. What
was the month? It just says 1942. 1942. Is that when
you were promoted to first lieutenant? No, that
was after I was promoted to first lieutenant. How
about captain? I was promptly promoted to
captain. Okay, so you were promoted to captain on
the 2nd of November, 1942. Well, I was given the
battery before I was promoted. And I went overseas
with the division commanding that battery. Then
after we'd been overseas for a while and before, we
went over in July of 1943, Before we were actually
committed to combat, we were in Australia. Okay,
well, let's get back to Texas. All right. What were
the problems of training?
Well, there were no real problems, but it was
real field soldiers. See, we were right there in
Fort Bliss on the edge of that vast desert. and uh
you go through training cycles if you've taken in a
number of recruits then you get cycle back sort of
the basic things until they kind of get to where
they can work and then you cycle through small unit
training and then battalion and regimental
training and division things where everybody's
out and then you go to uh as we did both summers after
I joined the division. I missed one of them. We went
to Louisiana Maneuvers with other divisions and
did mock warfare. Excellent training. So you were
prepared. You bet. Now, were you eager—this is
July of 43. We'd been in war for a year and a half. You
were still in America, had been training for all
that time. Were you eager to go to war? You bet, and
that's why we were— the only reason we were glad to
see those horses go because— Because we were so
attached to them, you know. But that meant you were
going to war. But that meant we were going to war.
And anybody in wartime that is an average
American, he wants to be a part of it. He wants to do
his part of it. Did you have a desire to go either to
the Pacific or Europe on one way or the other? It
doesn't matter, really. As it turned out,
the— the Japanese war was a dirty war the war with
the Japanese in many respects but I guess we all
adjusted what we're committed to and I at least
felt that we were in a preferred situation there to
Europe
why well in the first place
we were less susceptible to the Of course, it was a
war of mobility in Europe, but to the line on line,
you know. We did a great deal of, I think John
MacArthur did a beautiful job of executing a very
imaginative strategy. So we didn't get bogged
down anywhere, and we kept leaping great
distances, and we always were winning. We didn't
have any serious reversals. Our casualties were
many, of course. By and large, they were in the
infantry and the people directly supporting
them. So, in a sense, we didn't have to put up with
the terrible artillery that the Germans could
deliver on our troops or the dive bombers. One time
where we were really, in my division, exposed to
serious air action by the enemy, and that was in
Lady
when we had only carrier support and that big naval
battle occurred which crippled most of our
carriers and therefore immobilized our support
aircraft. But I think more than those things, it's
just that you know what you're doing. You know what
it's like where you are. and therefore you prefer
that to the unknown. So I guess what I'm saying is
that we had many disadvantages, but it didn't
bother us. Disadvantages are that, as I say, the
Japanese were a very, very sticky, difficult,
mean enemy because of his training and commitment
to the fight to the death.
The tropics are just pretty dirty place with
mosquitoes and snakes and other insects and other
reptiles
and as I have expressed it for 18 months between
Australia
and Luzon in the Philippines for 18 months I never
heard a door slam that means you're living on the
ground or in best in tents and I think our Our fellow
soldiers in Europe were managing a little better
than that some of the time. On the other hand,
another big factor, I'd much rather be in the heat
of the tropics than in the severe cold of the winter
in Europe. That's my personal viewpoint. Tell me
about your movement in July of 43. When you left
Texas, where'd you go? We left Texas, went to San
Francisco, and embarked for Brisbane,
Australia. and we went across by individual
transport ship and without incident. Were you in
convoys exactly? No, there were no convoys. The
theory was, as passed on, was that those
individual ships were faster than the convoy
escorts, and therefore your chances of, and
actually faster than submarines, and our Navy was
trying to keep up with where the submarines are,
but of course they couldn't bear it too well. So
there's a certain amount of luck in it, I guess. But
also one ship's harder to spot than a whole bunch.
And we arrived in Australia, of course, in July in
Australia. It was wintertime. It was pretty cold
when we got there. And we were there five months.
Really? Mainly. Five months? Five months. And we
got very impatient. I bet. And the reason was
that...
As best we could figure out, and I guess I should
have read the, I'm sure there's a detailed history
written by the Army that someday when I'm not so
busy I'm going to read, but it seemed that there
just was not an advantageous place to commit us
during those five months. Also, we had a great
opportunity to continue training and get people
into our outfits to that had actually been in
combat up there in this different kind of
fighting. So that was very advantageous. But I
think the main reason was they just hadn't decided
where to commit us. We were a strategic reserve
those first five months, which is a very logical
thing, too. Did you start jungle warfare tactic
training then? You bet. And that was useful. And
where'd you do that? Well, we went to a training
area. It's not the same, but it was very similar.
There was quite a lot of vegetation. Flinders
Range, it's called. It's up from Brisbane. Oh,
quite a long little way. I don't know, 75 or 100
miles.